docker-spark/readme.md, before:

# Spark One Node setup in Docker

This is apache spark one node setup to test Apache spark and for learning purpose. This is an alternative to VM's that 
are big in volume and take too much resources. 

In order to start the Spark container you can run following command
This command uses dockerfile
```docker run -p 4040:4040 --hostname localhost --rm -it my-spark-docker:latest /bin/bash```

A more sophisticated command is given below which also mounts volume
```
hostfolder="$(pwd)"
dockerfolder="/home/sam/app"
docker run --rm -it \
  --net="host" \
  -v ${hostfolder}:${dockerfolder} \
python_spark_custom_build:latest /bin/bash
```

The Docker container can also be launched using docker-compose
```
    docker-compose up -d
```

In order to launch pyspark you can go to the container and type pyspark as given below

![pyspark_terminal](resources/terminal.png)


Test if spark is setup properly and working file by running below code

```
import pyspark.sql.functions as f

textfile_df = spark.read.text("textfile.txt")
textfile.show()
df = textfile.withColumn('wordCount', f.size(f.split(f.col('value'), ' ')))
df.show()
wc_df = textfile.withColumn('word', f.explode(f.split(f.col('value'), ' '))).groupBy('word').count().sort('count', ascending=False).show()
wc_df.show()
```

![word_count](resources/word_count.png)


![word_frequency_count](resources/word_frequency_count.png)


In order to launch SparkUI you can go to localhost:4040
Spark UI screenshot given below

![spark_ui](resources/spark_ui.png)



For Windows:

```
set hostfolder=%cd%
set dockerfolder=/home/sam/app

echo %hostfolder%
echo %dockerfolder%

```

Reference:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/76593113/spark-application-run-inside-a-docker-container-i-see-only-driver-node-but-no


Next Step: To setup spark cluster with multiple worker node. 
https://medium.com/@MarinAgli1/using-hostnames-to-access-hadoop-resources-running-on-docker-5860cd7aeec1
https://medium.com/@marcovillarreal_40011/creating-a-spark-standalone-cluster-with-docker-and-docker-compose-ba9d743a157f

Commit message:

adding instruction to launch docker container using shell script

docker-spark/readme.md, after:

# Spark One Node setup in Docker

This is apache spark one node setup to test Apache spark and for learning purpose. This is an alternative to VM's that 
are big in volume and take too much resources. 

In order to start the Spark container you can run following command
This command uses dockerfile
```docker run -p 4040:4040 --hostname localhost --rm -it my-spark-docker:latest /bin/bash```

A more sophisticated command is given below which also mounts volume
```
hostfolder="$(pwd)"
dockerfolder="/home/sam/app"
docker run --rm -it \
  --net="host" \
  -v ${hostfolder}:${dockerfolder} \
python_spark_custom_build:latest /bin/bash
```

The Docker container can also be launched using docker-compose
```
    docker-compose up -d
```

In order to launch pyspark you can go to the container and type pyspark as given below

![pyspark_terminal](resources/terminal.png)


Test if spark is setup properly and working file by running below code

```
import pyspark.sql.functions as f

textfile_df = spark.read.text("textfile.txt")
textfile.show()
df = textfile.withColumn('wordCount', f.size(f.split(f.col('value'), ' ')))
df.show()
wc_df = textfile.withColumn('word', f.explode(f.split(f.col('value'), ' '))).groupBy('word').count().sort('count', ascending=False).show()
wc_df.show()
```

![word_count](resources/word_count.png)


![word_frequency_count](resources/word_frequency_count.png)


In order to launch SparkUI you can go to localhost:4040
Spark UI screenshot given below

![spark_ui](resources/spark_ui.png)




### Start Container using start.sh:
To use the script, make sure it has executable permissions (chmod +x start.sh). Then you can run the script with the desired command-line argument.

Examples:

```./start.sh build ```: will build the Docker image using docker-compose build.
```./start.sh run``` will run the container using docker-compose up -d.
```./start.sh build_and_run``` will both build the Docker image and run the container using the respective functions.


### Start Container using start.bat (Windows):
```start.bat build```: Executes the :build function to build the Docker image.
```start.bat run```: Executes the :run function to run the Docker container.
```start.bat build_and_run```: Executes the :build_and_run function to build the image and run the container.



For Windows:

```
set hostfolder=%cd%
set dockerfolder=/home/sam/app

echo %hostfolder%
echo %dockerfolder%

```

Reference:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/76593113/spark-application-run-inside-a-docker-container-i-see-only-driver-node-but-no


Next Step: To setup spark cluster with multiple worker node. 
https://medium.com/@MarinAgli1/using-hostnames-to-access-hadoop-resources-running-on-docker-5860cd7aeec1
https://medium.com/@marcovillarreal_40011/creating-a-spark-standalone-cluster-with-docker-and-docker-compose-ba9d743a157f
